To review the exercise prompt,
you're the PM for an e-commerce eco-sustainable shoe store,
and we just finished A/B test experiment,
where 50 percent of your users didn't
receive free shipping or the as-is experienced today,
and 50 percent of them did receive free shipping.
Now your goal as PM was to determine and present whether or not we should
offer free shipping to all customers based on the experiment data that you received.
Let's start out by first measuring if free shipping increases total revenue.
We plot out the control and variable in a bar chart tagged against revenue,
and we see that variable wins out,
meaning that free shipping, yes,
overall does increase total revenue.
What is the average spend per customer?
Again, we could see that the variable group,
the group that received free shipping tended to spend more.
All things are looking good.
But what percentage of visitors actually purchased something on the site?
As we can see here, the difference is marginal.
We have a lot of traffic on the site,
but relatively few visitors actually purchase both of the control and variable buckets.
So at the end of the day,
does free shipping actually increasing income?
If we tally up revenue and minus that by COGS or cost of goods sold,
we actually notice that a control or no free shipping is more profitable in the long run.
However, as an aside,
we noticed that free shipping does increase net income
for very particular products, these ones included.
So this warrants a further investigation or
further experimentation of only offering free shipping for these particular products.